---
num: "h16"
desc: "Perkovic Chapter 2"
ready: True
assigned: 2017-09-01 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-09-07 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please review {{page.desc}}.  Then complete these problems.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1">Given a string named <code>password</code>, write anywhere between 1 to 4 lines of Python code to achieve each of the following tasks. Assume that <code>password</code> has atleast five characters.

(a) (5 pts) Create a new string named <code>maskedPassword</code> that contains the first three characters contained in the variable <code>password</code> followed by 'x's instead of the remaining characters in <code>password</code>. The length of both strings must be the same. 
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(b) (5 pts) Write an expression that computes the total number of times either the character 'a' or 'e' appears in <code>password</code> in lower or upper case form. 
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(c) (5 pts) Write a Boolean expression that evaluates to True if the variable <code> password </code> is a valid password. In this case, a valid password consists of at least 8 characters, includes one of the special characters '*' or '#' and terminates with a numeric digit (0-9).
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(d) (5 pts) Suppose that you discover that the original password is not valid (as per the conditions specified in part(c)). Create a new password that contains all the characters in the variable <code> password </code> and additional characters in order to make it a valid password. Assign the result to a variable named <code> validPassword </code>
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li markdown="1">You are given a non-empty list named <code>lst</code> that contains a list of integers in random order. Write Python code to compute each of the following. Your code may modify the order of elements in the list but not the value of the elements.

(a) (5 pts) The minimum value in the list. Assign the result to the variable <code>minValue </code>
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(b) (5 pts) The average value of the elements in the list. Assign the result to the variable <code> avg </code>
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(c) (5 pts) The median of the list assigned to a variable of your choice. The median of a sequence of numbers is the value of the number in the middle of the list when the numbers are arranged in sorted order. For example given lst = [2, 80, 20, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1], the median is 1.
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

(d) (5 pts) The second smallest element in the list assigned to a variable of your choice. For example given lst = [2, 80, 20, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1], the value of the second smallest element is 2.
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Variable <code> pt </code> is a tuple that represents the x and y coordinates of a point in the Cartesian coordinate system as (x, y). Variable <code> rect </code> is a list that represents a rectangle as [(x, y), width, height]. The elements of the list from left to right are (i) a tuple containing the coordinates of the top left corner of the rectangle, (ii) the width of the rectangle, (iii) the height of the rectangle. Write Python code that checks if the point <code> pt </code> lies within the boundaries of the rectangle <code> rect </code>, and assign the result (which may evaluate to either True or False) to a variable named <code>isPointInRect</code>
<div style="margin-bottom:3em"></div>

</li>


<li markdown="1">

This exercise checks your understanding of mutability and constructors in Python. Assume the following assignment statements have been entered at the Python prompt:

```python
petStr = str("goldfish")
petTup = tuple("cat")
petLst = list("turtle")
petLst.sort()
petLst.append(petStr)
```

What would be the result of entering the following at
the Python interactive shell prompt? If any of the commands is invalid, write the exact error type that is displayed by the Python shell. Be very precise.  Note that `True` is not the same in Python as `true`; upper
vs. lower case matters.  You will not get full credit for answers that are not
precisely correct. 

<style>
div.bigger table * td { padding: 0.7em 3pt 0.7em 3pt; }
span.wide { padding: 0pt 4em 0pt 4em; }
</style>

<div class="bigger" markdown="1">

| Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> | Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> |
|---------|-------------|--------|---------|-------------|--------|
| (2 pts) | `len(petLst)` |        | (2 pts) | `petStr.sort()`     |        |
| (2 pts) | `min(petStr)`    |        | (2 pts) | `petLst.count('l') `|        |
| (2 pts) | `petTup*2`    |        | (2 pts) | `petTup[-1] ='r'` |        |
| (2 pts) | `'g' in petLst`    |        | (2 pts) | `petLst[-3] in petTup`  |        |
| (2 pts) | `'g' in petStr`    |        | (2 pts) | `min(petStr.upper())`    |        |


</div>

</li>

</ol>



